now there are several ways to handle data in your
app, react native app. So you probably have
already heard of redox. It's kind of the go
to way in this in this workshop we are going
to use react context which is a built end way
a built in way in, react to handle global
state. Just as a side note, if you
are going to read use Redux for your project,
I strongly recommend you check out Redux toolkit which basically
gives you all the power of Redux but with very
very little boilerplate also, it's fully typed with typescript
so it's basically magic. However, in this project
we're going to be exploring react context. Now the
context basically the way it works is you wrap a
context around a section of your app or you can
wrap it around your whole app and then basically you
pass down specific elements through the context and all the
items that you passed down can be then used or
by all the Children inside your app. Now context
has two parts. There is a provider and a
consumer. So the provider is this top level component
and this is where we also store the data and
then a consumer is something that can consume all the
data within the provider from anywhere in the app component
tree. So you don't need to do any prop
drilling. So this is handy for us because if
we look at our app, we would like to
have, we would like to be entering our data
from the home page but really want the data,
the history to appear on the history page. And
if you go to the navigation. Oftentimes navigation,
we couldn't even pass these down as props because home
and history are adjacent in the component tree. So
that's why we have to use something like context or
redux. So to start, let's create a provider
. So I'm going to create one top level context
. So in a source directory must create a new
file and call it up dot provider dot tsx.
And here let's create a new context. So let's
do const mhm up. Mhm. To check if
it was capital or not. Oh no, it
was. Yeah. So let's create any context.
Let's to contact const up context equals create context and
then create context is imported from react. And here
we need to pass in a default value and also
the type for it. So let's start with up
context type. Let's just say greeting and I'm going
to say hello and we're going to pass this context
type here as we did with with you state.
And we also need to pass in an initial value
. So let's do So this is the type.
So this should be greeting string. Here we do
greeting. Hello. All right. So now we
have an up context and we have an initial value
. This thing we need is a provider. So
so this is the bit that's exported from this um
from from the app provider. So let's do export
const app provider. So this will be a react
fc. And we're going to return up context dot
provider. And so basically the purpose of this component
is that we're going to wrap it around where we
want our context to be. So we're going to
take the Children so anything that's inside it and we're
going to just pass the Children down. Yeah.
Mhm. And lastly, we need to give this
the context a value. So the value in a
provider is basically what's the current value of the context
is? So this is the part that will be
available for all the Children to use. So we
do value. And then this needs to match this
syntax. So we'll do greeting. Hello. And
lastly we should also import react if we're using the
sx. All right. So now this is all
set up. Now let's go to where we want
this app provider to be. So in our case
let's go to the top level. I'm going to
go to up the Tsx and I'm going to wrap
this in the app provider. Cool. So now
this means that this value that we're passing to our
provider will be available for anything that's inside the app
providers. So all of our screens will have access
to the same instance of that value. So usually
I create a convenience function in my provider for using
it. So there's a used context hook. So
I will do export const use up context. And
the way they use context is you use use context
use context which is important say as to react dot
to use context and we pass in the context you
want to use in our case it's the app context
. So you can have multiple contexts within europe.
So in this case you could you could you could
have a use the context or theme, context or
authentication context and now from any component. So let's
for example, go to our history screen. We
can do const context equals use up context. Now
if you hover over this, you'll see that and
to give you the return value. Um yeah,
we'll see that this is of type app context type
which means that it has a greeting in it.
So in history instead of typing path, instead of
logging out history, I can do up context greeting
and now I can see that this says hello.
So if I had more things here, Hello world
, it will update. And the cool thing about
that is that we can use the same thing on
any component without having to pass this down. So
for example, if I went to the analytics tab
that we haven't used this exact same thing will work
here. So constant context use context. If I
did have context of greeting, you can see that
. So I went home history says hello world and
analytics also says hello world. So they have access
to the same instance of context. So he's going
to riff about this from the allergic screen. So
what we want to use our context for is basically
to pull out this mood list item into context so
we could access the mood list from both pages.
So let's do this. Now when we go to
the let's go to the home screen. Okay let's
open the home screen where you currently have the mood
list and handle select mood. And I'm going to
copy both these and go to the app provider and
this is just a react component. So I'm going
to paste them here. So we've got movie list
and select mood going to import the types. Mhm
And I want to pass both of these down so
they could be accessed by any component. So let's
do move list and handle select mood. And obviously
now our context type has changed only to update this
. Mhm. So mood list is now an array
or move option with timestamp and handle select mood is
a function that takes in a mood which is a
mood option type and returns nothing. So one thing
is that you need to provide a default value for
all these. So we'll do mood list which is
just an empty ray and handle select mood which is
a Node function. Excellent. So now both mood
list and the handle select functions are available within our
context. So now if we go to home um
let's delete this and use up context instead. So
that's two up context. Use context and here where
we have the mood picker for handle select mood will
instead passing up context dot handle select mood. And
I'm going to copy this smooth list away from the
app screen because we don't want it to be here
and instead let's hope in history screen. So we
already have up context here and we want to do
up context dot mood list. So you want to
copy this bit? Yeah we want to map them
to move items so let's make sure this is imported
and this doesn't need to be in text. Mhm
. Okay so in our home screen all we're doing
is we're accessing the app context, passing in the
select and in history we're also passing like accessing up
context and we're just using that to access up context
mood list to map over it and render each of
the food items. So let's see if this works
. So choose some food items. Hey it's in
the correct screen. We're going to add extra celebratory
emoji for that. Say I'm recording my mood every
day for a few days and I traveled from London
to san Francisco and then recorded my mood in san
Francisco then came back to London. How would we
adjust the time and show BST for all of my
moods in P. S. Or P. C
. T. Anyway it's time zone. Well the
way the jealous give times work is that it's a
point in time if that makes sense. So so
the actual timestamp like it's it's a timestamp in that
. Um So currently it says you know 28th of
September 1258 to me. Like if I'm if I
took this exact date object and moved it to the
U. S. The date would be different.
So it's still a point in times you wouldn't have
like dates that are like all over the place.
Um But to actually say that oh this state was
recorded in a different time zone. I think you
need to at the actual time zone information on the
date. Um Yeah I think that's how I would
do it. I I had the actual time zone
information into the date because the JavaScript eight actually disappointing
time. So it doesn't know what time zone is
is. So it's telling me my date in my
time zone because it knows the context. Um Like
from my from my device time zones are hot.
Maybe you're recording it in UTC or something. Yeah
you need you need a different way of recording it
. You couldn't wouldn't be able to use it in
time stamps. So you could you could actually do
the date string that includes the time zone information.
Um But genuinely like I just stick to JavaScript dates
. So like if you recorded your mood at 10
a.m. In the U. S. And then moved
to the move to London then it would it would
say that it was recorded at five a.m. Or whatever
the time differences is. The app context type that
you just implemented the interface. Uh is the app
context type of interface? It's not, you could
use interfaces. Um So I wanted to keep this
as simple as possible so there is um so you
could use an interface for this so you can do
this. Um and and and that would work that's
valid. Um There are some differences with how interfaces
work versus how types work and I think types are
easier to work with. So I don't generally use
interfaces. One thing with interfaces is that you could
have um two interfaces with the same name. So
just a greeting and strength. All right. And
then what actually would happen is that because these are
two interfaces with the same name, they kind of
get combined like in your type, which I think
is quite unexpected and if you use type it's a
feature right? If you use object oriented programming especially
but if you use type you wouldn't be able to
Have two types with the same name. Um So
in general I kind of stick two types. I
think they're a bit more straightforward